Create Deploying-External-OpenStack-Cloud-Provider-With-Kubeadm.md (#18808)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/Deploying-External-OpenStack-Cloud-Provider-With-Kubeadm.md

* a user in this project for Kubernetes, to query node information and attach volumes etc
* a private network and subnet
* a router for this private network and connect it to a public network for floating IPs
* a security group for all Kubernetes VMs
* a VM as control plane node and a few VMs as worker nodes

The security group will have the following rules to open ports for Kubernetes.

**Control Plane Node**

|Protocol  | Port Number | Description|
|----------|-------------|------------|
|TCP |6443|Kubernetes API Server|
|TCP|2379-2380|etcd server client API|
|TCP|10250|Kubelet API|
|TCP|10251|kube-scheduler|
|TCP|10252|kube-controller-manager|
|TCP|10255|Read-only Kubelet API|

**Worker Nodes**

|Protocol  | Port Number | Description|
|----------|-------------|------------|
|TCP|10250|Kubelet API|
|TCP|10255|Read-only Kubelet API|
|TCP|30000-32767|NodePort Services|

**CNI Ports on both master and worker nodes**

|Protocol  | Port Number | Description|
|----------|-------------|------------|
|TCP|179|Calico BGP network|
|TCP|9099|Calico felix (health check)|
|UDP|8285|Flannel|
|UDP|8472|Flannel|
|TCP|6781-6784|Weave net|
|UDP|6783-6784|Weave net|

> CNI specific ports are only required to be opened when that particular CNI plugin is used. In this instruction we use Weave net, thus only those Weave net ports, TCP 6781-6784 and UDP 6783-6784, need to be opened in the security group.

Author: Fixed

The control plane node needs at least 2 cores and 4GB RAM. After the VM is launched, verify its hostname and make sure it is the same as the node name in Nova. 
If the hostname is not resolvable, add it to `/etc/hosts`.

For example, if the VM is called master1, and it has an internal IP 192.168.1.4. Add that to `/etc/hosts` and set hostname to master1.

> ```

Author: Fixed

yum-config-manager \
  --add-repo \
  https://download.docker.com/linux/centos/docker-ce.repo

## Install Docker CE.

yum update && yum install docker-ce-18.06.2.ce

## Create /etc/docker directory.

mkdir /etc/docker

# Setup daemon.

cat > /etc/docker/daemon.json <<EOF
{
  "exec-opts": ["native.cgroupdriver=systemd"],
  "log-driver": "json-file",
  "log-opts": {
    "max-size": "100m"
  },
  "storage-driver": "overlay2",
  "storage-opts": [
    "overlay2.override_kernel_check=true"
  ]
}
EOF

mkdir -p /etc/systemd/system/docker.service.d

# Restart Docker
systemctl daemon-reload
systemctl restart docker
systemctl enable docker
```

Install kubeadm following the steps from the [Installing Kubeadm](/docs/setup/production-environment/tools/kubeadm/install-kubeadm/) documentation.

```
cat <<EOF > /etc/yum.repos.d/kubernetes.repo
[kubernetes]
name=Kubernetes
baseurl=https://packages.cloud.google.com/yum/repos/kubernetes-el7-x86_64
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
repo_gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=https://packages.cloud.google.com/yum/doc/yum-key.gpg https://packages.cloud.google.com/yum/doc/rpm-package-key.gpg
EOF

# Set SELinux in permissive mode (effectively disabling it)
setenforce 0

> sed -i 's/^SELINUX=enforcing$/SELINUX=permissive/' /etc/selinux/config

Author: Done. This bit is from https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/production-environment/tools/kubeadm/install-kubeadm/

Setting SELinux in permissive mode by running setenforce 0 and sed ... effectively disables it. This is required to allow containers to access the host filesystem, which is needed by pod networks for example. You have to do this until SELinux support is improved in the kubelet.

We'll largely follow that document but also add additional things for the cloud provider.
To make things more clear, we'll use a kubeadm-config.yml for the master.
In this config we specify to use an external OpenStack cloud provider, and where to find its config.
We also enable storage API in API server's runtime config so we can use OpenStack volumes as persistent volumes in Kubernetes.

```
apiVersion: kubeadm.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: InitConfiguration
nodeRegistration:
  kubeletExtraArgs:
    cloud-provider: "external"
---
apiVersion: kubeadm.k8s.io/v1beta2
kind: ClusterConfiguration
kubernetesVersion: "v1.15.1"
apiServer:
  extraArgs:
    enable-admission-plugins: NodeRestriction
    runtime-config: "storage.k8s.io/v1=true"
controllerManager:
  extraArgs:
    external-cloud-volume-plugin: openstack
  extraVolumes:
  - name: "cloud-config"
    hostPath: "/etc/kubernetes/cloud-config"
    mountPath: "/etc/kubernetes/cloud-config"
    readOnly: true
    pathType: File
networking:
  serviceSubnet: "10.96.0.0/12"
  podSubnet: "10.224.0.0/16"
  dnsDomain: "cluster.local"
```

Now we'll create cloud config, `/etc/kubernetes/cloud-config`, for OpenStack. 

> Note that the tenant here is the one we created for all Kubernets VMs in the beginning.

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
Note that the tenant here is the one we created for all Kubernetes VMs in the beginning.
```

All VMs should be launched in this project/tenant.
In addition you need to create a user in this tenant for Kubernetes to do queries.
The ca-file is the CA root certificate for OpenStack's API endpoint, for example `https://openstack.cloud:5000/v3`
At the time of writing the cloud provider doesn't allow insecure connections (skip CA check).

```
[Global]
region=RegionOne
username=username
password=password
auth-url=https://openstack.cloud:5000/v3
tenant-id=14ba698c0aec4fd6b7dc8c310f664009
domain-id=default
ca-file=/etc/kubernetes/ca.pem

[LoadBalancer]
subnet-id=b4a9a292-ea48-4125-9fb2-8be2628cb7a1
floating-network-id=bc8a590a-5d65-4525-98f3-f7ef29c727d5

[BlockStorage]
bs-version=v2

[Networking]
public-network-name=public
ipv6-support-disabled=false
```

Next run kubeadm to initiate the master
```
kubeadm init --config=kubeadm-config.yml
```

With the initialization completed, copy admin config to .kube
```
  mkdir -p $HOME/.kube
  sudo cp -i /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf $HOME/.kube/config
  sudo chown $(id -u):$(id -g) $HOME/.kube/config
```

> At this stage, the control plane node is created but not ready. All the nodes have the taint <code>node.cloudprovider.kubernetes.io/uninitialized=true:NoSchedule</code> and waiting for being initialized by cloud-controller-manager. 

Reviewer: How about this wording:
```suggestion
At this stage, the control plane node is created but not ready. All the nodes have the taint `node.cloudprovider.kubernetes.io/uninitialized=true:NoSchedule` and are waiting to be initialized by the cloud-controller-manager.
```

```
# kubectl describe no master1
Name:               master1
Roles:              master
......
Taints:             node-role.kubernetes.io/master:NoSchedule
                    node.cloudprovider.kubernetes.io/uninitialized=true:NoSchedule
                    node.kubernetes.io/not-ready:NoSchedule
......
```

> Now deploy openstack cloud controller manager into the cluster as per the [using controller manager with kubeadm](https://github.com/kubernetes/cloud-provider-openstack/blob/master/docs/using-controller-manager-with-kubeadm.md) documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now deploy the OpenStack cloud controller manager into the cluster, following [using controller manager with kubeadm](https://github.com/kubernetes/cloud-provider-openstack/blob/master/docs/using-controller-manager-with-kubeadm.md).
```
?

Create a secret with cloud-config for openstack cloud provider. 
```
kubectl create secret -n kube-system generic cloud-config --from-literal=cloud.conf="$(cat /etc/kubernetes/cloud-config)" --dry-run -o yaml > cloud-config-secret.yaml
kubectl apply -f cloud-config-secret.yaml 
```

> Get ca certs of OpenStack API endpoints and put it in `/etc/kubernetes/ca.pem`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Get the CA certificate for OpenStack API endpoints and put that into `/etc/kubernetes/ca.pem`.
```

Create RBAC resources.
```
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/kubernetes/cloud-provider-openstack/raw/release-1.15/cluster/addons/rbac/cloud-controller-manager-roles.yaml
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/kubernetes/cloud-provider-openstack/raw/release-1.15/cluster/addons/rbac/cloud-controller-manager-role-bindings.yaml
```

We'll run OpenStack cloud controller manager as a DaemonSet rather than a pod.
The manager will only run on the master, so if there are multiple masters, multiple pods will be run for high availability.

> Create the DaemonSet yaml, `openstack-cloud-controller-manager-ds.yaml`, and apply it.

Reviewer: I recommend:
```suggestion
Create `openstack-cloud-controller-manager-ds.yaml` containing the following manifests, then apply it.
```

          type: DirectoryOrCreate
        name: flexvolume-dir
      - hostPath:
          path: /etc/kubernetes/pki
          type: DirectoryOrCreate
        name: k8s-certs
      - hostPath:
          path: /etc/ssl/certs
          type: DirectoryOrCreate
        name: ca-certs
      - name: cloud-config-volume
        secret:
          secretName: cloud-config
      - name: ca-cert
        secret:
          secretName: openstack-ca-cert
```

When the controller manager is running, it will query OpenStack to get information about the nodes and remove the taint. In the node info you'll see the VM's UUID in OpenStack.
```
# kubectl describe no master1
Name:               master1
Roles:              master
......
Taints:             node-role.kubernetes.io/master:NoSchedule
                    node.kubernetes.io/not-ready:NoSchedule
......
sage:docker: network plugin is not ready: cni config uninitialized
......
PodCIDR:                     10.224.0.0/24
ProviderID:                  openstack:///548e3c46-2477-4ce2-968b-3de1314560a5

```
Now install your favourite CNI and the control plane node will become ready.

For example, to install weave net, run this command:
```

> kubectl apply -f "https://cloud.weave.works/k8s/net?k8s-version=$(kubectl version | base64 | tr -d '\n')"

Reviewer: @shundezhang, this doesn't look right to me. What processing did you want to do to the output of `kubectl version`?

Author: I just followed the instruction in https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/production-environment/tools/kubeadm/create-cluster-kubeadm/:

Weave Net works on amd64, arm, arm64 and ppc64le without any extra action required. Weave Net sets hairpin mode by default. This allows Pods to access themselves via their Service IP address if they don’t know their PodIP.

kubectl apply -f "https://cloud.weave.works/k8s/net?k8s-version=$(kubectl version | base64 | tr -d '\n')"

---
layout: blog
title: "Deploying External OpenStack Cloud Provider with Kubeadm"
date: 2020-01-20
slug: Deploying-External-OpenStack-Cloud-Provider-with-Kubeadm
---
This document describes how to install a single-master Kubernetes cluster v1.15 with kubeadm on CentOS, and then deploy an external OpenStack cloud provider and Cinder CSI plugin to use Cinder volumes as persistent volumes in Kubernetes.

### Preparation in OpenStack

> This cluster will be running on OpenStack VMs so we'll create a few things in OpenStack for it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This cluster runs on OpenStack VMs, so let's create a few things in OpenStack first.
```

> * A project/tenant for this Kubernetes cluster.

Author: removed the `.`

> * A project/tenant for this Kubernetes cluster

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A project/tenant for this Kubernetes cluster.
```

> * a user in this project for Kubernetes, to query node information and attach volumes etc

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A user in this project for Kubernetes, to query node information and attach volumes.
```

Reviewer 2: nit: can you capitalize the elements in these bullet points?

Author: fixed

* A private network and subnet
* A router for this private network and connect it to a public network for floating IPs
* A security group for all Kubernetes VMs
* A VM as control-plane node and a few VMs as worker nodes

The security group will have the following rules to open ports for Kubernetes.

**Control-Plane Node**

|Protocol  | Port Number | Description|
|----------|-------------|------------|
|TCP |6443|Kubernetes API Server|
|TCP|2379-2380|etcd server client API|
|TCP|10250|Kubelet API|
|TCP|10251|kube-scheduler|
|TCP|10252|kube-controller-manager|
|TCP|10255|Read-only Kubelet API|

**Worker Nodes**

|Protocol  | Port Number | Description|
|----------|-------------|------------|
|TCP|10250|Kubelet API|
|TCP|10255|Read-only Kubelet API|
|TCP|30000-32767|NodePort Services|

**CNI ports on both control-plane and worker nodes**

|Protocol  | Port Number | Description|
|----------|-------------|------------|
|TCP|179|Calico BGP network|
|TCP|9099|Calico felix (health check)|
|UDP|8285|Flannel|
|UDP|8472|Flannel|
|TCP|6781-6784|Weave Net|
|UDP|6783-6784|Weave Net|

> CNI specific ports are only required to be opened when that particular CNI plugin is used. In this instruction we use Weave net, thus only those Weave net ports, TCP 6781-6784 and UDP 6783-6784, need to be opened in the security group.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
CNI specific ports are only required to be opened when that particular CNI plugin is used. In this guide, we will use Weave Net. Only the Weave Net ports (TCP 6781-6784 and UDP 6783-6784), will need to be opened in the security group.
```

I think section needs to be reworded a little bit.

The control plane node needs at least 2 cores and 4GB RAM. After the VM is launched, verify its hostname and make sure it is the same as the node name in Nova. 
If the hostname is not resolvable, add it to `/etc/hosts`.

> For example, if the VM is called master1, and it has an internal IP 192.168.1.4. Add that to `/etc/hosts` and set hostname to master1.

Reviewer 2: Please change all instances of "master" to "control plane."

Author: fixed

```shell
echo "192.168.1.4 master1" >> /etc/hosts

hostnamectl set-hostname master1
```
### Install Docker and Kubernetes

> Next, we'll follow official documents to install docker and Kubernetes using kubeadm.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Next, we'll follow the official documents to install docker and Kubernetes using kubeadm.
```

Install Docker following the steps from the [container runtime](/docs/setup/production-environment/container-runtimes/) documentation.

> Note that it is best practice to use systemd as the cgroup driver for Kubernetes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note that it is a [best practice to use systemd as the cgroup driver](/docs/setup/production-environment/container-runtimes/#cgroup-drivers) for Kubernetes.
```

Figured it'd be worth linking to the original document.

> If you use internal repository servers, add them to docker's config too.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you use an internal container registry, add them to the docker config.
```
I think this is meant to be registry?

We'll largely follow that document but also add additional things for the cloud provider.
To make things more clear, we'll use a `kubeadm-config.yml` for the control-plane node.
In this config we specify to use an external OpenStack cloud provider, and where to find its config.
We also enable storage API in API server's runtime config so we can use OpenStack volumes as persistent volumes in Kubernetes.

```yaml
apiVersion: kubeadm.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: InitConfiguration
nodeRegistration:
  kubeletExtraArgs:
    cloud-provider: "external"
---
apiVersion: kubeadm.k8s.io/v1beta2
kind: ClusterConfiguration
kubernetesVersion: "v1.15.1"
apiServer:
  extraArgs:
    enable-admission-plugins: NodeRestriction
    runtime-config: "storage.k8s.io/v1=true"
controllerManager:
  extraArgs:
    external-cloud-volume-plugin: openstack
  extraVolumes:
  - name: "cloud-config"
    hostPath: "/etc/kubernetes/cloud-config"
    mountPath: "/etc/kubernetes/cloud-config"
    readOnly: true
    pathType: File
networking:
  serviceSubnet: "10.96.0.0/12"
  podSubnet: "10.224.0.0/16"
  dnsDomain: "cluster.local"
```

> Now we'll create cloud config, `/etc/kubernetes/cloud-config`, for OpenStack. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now we'll create the cloud config, `/etc/kubernetes/cloud-config`, for OpenStack. 
```

[BlockStorage]
bs-version=v2

[Networking]
public-network-name=public
ipv6-support-disabled=false
```

Next run kubeadm to initiate the control-plane node
```shell
kubeadm init --config=kubeadm-config.yml
```

With the initialization completed, copy admin config to .kube
```shell
  mkdir -p $HOME/.kube
  sudo cp -i /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf $HOME/.kube/config
  sudo chown $(id -u):$(id -g) $HOME/.kube/config
```

At this stage, the control-plane node is created but not ready. All the nodes have the taint `node.cloudprovider.kubernetes.io/uninitialized=true:NoSchedule` and are waiting to be initialized by the cloud-controller-manager.
```console
# kubectl describe no master1
Name:               master1
Roles:              master
......
Taints:             node-role.kubernetes.io/master:NoSchedule
                    node.cloudprovider.kubernetes.io/uninitialized=true:NoSchedule
                    node.kubernetes.io/not-ready:NoSchedule
......
```
Now deploy the OpenStack cloud controller manager into the cluster, following [using controller manager with kubeadm](https://github.com/kubernetes/cloud-provider-openstack/blob/master/docs/using-controller-manager-with-kubeadm.md).

> Create a secret with cloud-config for openstack cloud provider. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Create a secret with the cloud-config for the openstack cloud provider. 
```

just a suggestion - I think this reads better with the `the` in there

```shell
kubectl create secret -n kube-system generic cloud-config --from-literal=cloud.conf="$(cat /etc/kubernetes/cloud-config)" --dry-run -o yaml > cloud-config-secret.yaml
kubectl apply -f cloud-config-secret.yaml 
```

Get the CA certificate for OpenStack API endpoints and put that into `/etc/kubernetes/ca.pem`.

Create RBAC resources.
```shell
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/kubernetes/cloud-provider-openstack/raw/release-1.15/cluster/addons/rbac/cloud-controller-manager-roles.yaml
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/kubernetes/cloud-provider-openstack/raw/release-1.15/cluster/addons/rbac/cloud-controller-manager-role-bindings.yaml
```

> We'll run OpenStack cloud controller manager as a DaemonSet rather than a pod.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We'll run the OpenStack cloud controller manager as a DaemonSet rather than a pod.
```

          type: DirectoryOrCreate
        name: flexvolume-dir
      - hostPath:
          path: /etc/kubernetes/pki
          type: DirectoryOrCreate
        name: k8s-certs
      - hostPath:
          path: /etc/ssl/certs
          type: DirectoryOrCreate
        name: ca-certs
      - name: cloud-config-volume
        secret:
          secretName: cloud-config
      - name: ca-cert
        secret:
          secretName: openstack-ca-cert
```

When the controller manager is running, it will query OpenStack to get information about the nodes and remove the taint. In the node info you'll see the VM's UUID in OpenStack.
```console
# kubectl describe no master1
Name:               master1
Roles:              master
......
Taints:             node-role.kubernetes.io/master:NoSchedule
                    node.kubernetes.io/not-ready:NoSchedule
......
sage:docker: network plugin is not ready: cni config uninitialized
......
PodCIDR:                     10.224.0.0/24
ProviderID:                  openstack:///548e3c46-2477-4ce2-968b-3de1314560a5

```
Now install your favourite CNI and the control-plane node will become ready.

> For example, to install weave net, run this command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, to install Weave Net, run this command:
```
